---
layout: post
title: Satyrday (excerpt)
author: Stephen Bauer
mp3_url: https://s3.amazonaws.com/spokenrune/satyrday-ravens-moon.mp3
image_url: http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2619/4234243998_2d9a822d63_z.jpg
---

From _Satyrday_.  Stephen Bauer.  1980.

It was just past midnight, and the air was filled with wings.  An army
of ravens came out of the west like a cold black storm.  Leaves
rustled in the deepening chill, and over the ground a wind rolled, a
darkly visible tumbleweed of air

But in the sky was a rumble such as a distant earthquake might have
made.  The moon was startled by the sound.  The night had been
peaceful, its curved sweep studded with stars.  Above her, their sharp
sparks bristled.  She had followed this course forever, her bright
edge unfolding until a pale medallion hung full in the sky.  Balanced
between the earth and the pincushion of stars above, she remained
pleased with herself, the axis of night, the interlocutor.  But now
she was waning, past half, growing weaker with the loss of light.  And
this rumble behind her was frightening.

Over her shoulder the moon watched the ravens approach.  They came
like a rippling sheet, its slow waves caused by unseed hands, the fury
of its organization apparent even at this distance.  In an instant,
the ravens were cawing.  The first hoarse streaks of sound reached the
moon and mulitplied until their monotonous echoing rattled the night.
_Crauk_.  _Cr-r-cruk_.  It came from everywhere, its hard consonants
scratching at her, and under the surface a denser noise, the violent
reverberations of their wings.

The moon thought the whole of creation was screaming.  The earth
disappeared.  Ravens swooped under her, so thick she could see only
her own dim light flung back at her by their glossy blackness.
Thousands still flooded from the west, a turbulent stream of feathers
unfurling from the horizon.  Beneath her, the stream curled in a
sudden arc and the bright red darts of the ravens' eyes pushed past
her face, in front of her.

Only then did she see the net.  Hooked in the ravens' talons was a
fine gauze, black as their wings, hardly visible in the reflected
light.  As the birds whirled around her, the net caught the horns of
her crescent and stuck, drawn ever more tight.  She was imprisoned by
layers of gauze, she was strangled by them.  The hoarse screaming of
the brids grew, pulsing through her until the cawing seemed to be
coming from inside.

She could see nothing more.  She felt herself stiffen, the sudden
onset of vertigo releasing into the certainty of fall, and she groaned
as the ravens wrenched her free from her path over the earth.  Her
fire went out.  The night filled with a horrible rush, the dissonant
flapping of thousands of wings, the hollow suck as she left her orbit,
and the creeping cold of the wind which took her place.

[Photography source](http://www.flickr.com/photos/32479006@N08/4234243998/).